now it came to pass when samuel was old
that he made his sons judges over israel
the name of his firstborn was joan and
the name of his second Abijah they were
judges in Beersheba but his sons did not
walk in his ways they turned aside after
dishonest gain took bribes and perverted
justice and all the elders of israel
gathered together and came to samuel a
train look you are old and your sons do
not walk in your ways now make us a king
to judge us like all the nations but the
thing displeased Samuel when they said
give us a king to judge us so Samuel
pray to the Lord and the Lord said to
Samuel heed the voice of the people in
all that they say to you for they have
not rejected you but they have rejected
me that I should not reign over them
according to all the works which they
have done since the day that I brought
them up out of Egypt even to this day
with which they have forsaken me and
served other gods so they are doing to
you also
now therefore heed their voice however
you shall solemnly forewarn them and
show them the behavior of the king who
will reign over them
so Samuel told all the words of the Lord
to the people who asked him for a king
this will be the behavior of the king
who will reign over you he will take
your sons and appoint them for his own
chariots and to be his horsemen and some
will run before his chariots he will
appoint captains over his houses and
captain's over his fifties
will set some to plow his ground and
reap his harvest and some to make his
weapons of war and equipment for his
chariots he will take your daughters to
be perfumers cooks and bakers and he
will take the best of your fields your
vineyards and your olive groves and give
them to his servants he will take a
tenth of your grain and your vintage and
give it to his officers and servants and
he will take your male servants your
female servants your finest young men
and your donkeys and put them to his
work he will take a tenth of your sheep
and you will be his servants and you
will cry out in that day because of your
King whom you have chosen for yourselves
and the Lord will not hear you in that
day nevertheless the people refused to
obey the voice of Samuel no but we will
have a king over us that we also may be
like all the nations and that our King
may judge us and go out before us and
fight our battles and Samuel heard all
the words of the people and he repeated
them in the hearing of the Lord so the
Lord said to Samuel heed their voice
and make them a king and Samuel said to
the men of Israel every man go to his
City